Please contact if you find any problem.

smhasnats@gmail.com


About This Project

From 2019, the pandemic situation has had a remarkable impact on people’s daily lives and also for their lives. And wearing a face mask every time is the primary way to minimize the damage and can control the virus. And for risk free nature, a mask detection system is proposed in this report. The fundamental plans of this project is to detect the face mask and if it detects no face mask or an inappropriate mask, then the system turns on an alarm automatically. And this system is using a combination of OpenCV, a lightweight deep learning model, and TensorFlow/kera,s which is simple to build and trained on. A lot of embedded devices like webcam or an alarm system, could be implemented in this project easily and though it uses MobileNetV2 as its backbone architecture, it gives a higher computational rate with fixed capability. The system can be easily integrated into various embedded devices with fixed computational capability, as it uses the MobileNetV2 architecture. In contemporary periods, COVID-19 has had a domino effect on manufacturing, travel, tourism, and hospitality, crippling the international economy. In extra to it, is the growth angle of human casualties across the world due to the pandemic, this project, which depends on computer vision and deep learning, intend to make an effect and solve the real-world difficulty of safety standards at some meaningful level. Also, this project detect mask from pictures along with real-time videos so this system could be use at airfields, offices, hospitals, and many more public places to guarantee that the safety measures are carried out and people are taking by the rules and laws to wear protective masks at public places. If the detection system classifies as ‘No Mask’, reminders can be given as well as actions can be taken against such individuals to minimize the outspread the corona virus.
